Rural values help offset some of the extremes that you might find in the cosmopolitan urban type of thing.
And I think our country has benefited from rural mores, rural values, and so forth.
If you had the financial capability to make a major contribution to Texas A&M, for what cause or causes would you give?
of your own resources.
You mean irrespective of extension or anything?
It could be, you name it, it could be anything, extension or anything else.
Well, as I said, a part of this relates to my extensive international experience, Haskell.
You go into some of these, I've worked in India, I've worked in some of the poorest countries in Africa, and we talk about the Green Revolution, and we try to help people in all of this, and you see the missionaries that work in these areas, you're often run into them, Peace Corps types and everything.
But ultimately, I come down on the side that none of these things will matter unless we get some population under control.
I mean, this is my big thing.
And if I had, you know, the money that our friend has, Gates has, or something like that, I think we need an international effort.
And to me, it's not a matter of, the only thing I find correlated with the population
control is education of women.
And I think this is so essential throughout the world.
If women could be given access to more education, they would take more control of their lives.
And it's, you know, when you see Africa, you know, and South America and other places, the land they're trying to bring into production should never be touched
you know, and it just causes environmental disaster, you know, what's happening to our wildlife in Africa and all of these things.
It's all population pressures.
I mean, when you have, in Kenya, the average woman has eight point something children, the average woman, I mean,
Zimbabwe's population has more than doubled since they became independents.
That's only been 20 years ago.
I mean, something's got to give.
I mean, you know, AIDS has gotten into that picture.
That's, you know, one of the things that you find out in Africa that was so disillusioning to me that even the best educated leaders in Africa, Western educated
find it very popular to imply that this was a white man's conspiracy developed deliberately.
And I mean, the top respected politicians repeat this line in the newspaper and everything.
But I really feel strongly in terms of the nation, the hemisphere, and the world as a whole that this uncontrolled population growth, I mean, you just make any projections that you want to.
Something's got to give.
I mean, it's, you know, I look at India, having worked there, their population at that time was increasing a million a month, surpassing People's Republic of China, I think, in a few years.
And you see them, you go out into the rural areas, people existing on five, six hundred calories a day, they can only work three, two or three hours and they're completely exhausted, which you would be too if you didn't get that many calories.
That's my own personal big issue.
I would, you know, there's so much missionary work going on in the world, I've often almost gotten to the point where I sometimes resent my contributions going in that direction because I don't think they, I mean, it's fine to try to, you know, persuade people
in terms of this, but I think there's so many other ways you can help them through general education and let them make their decisions as to what they believe in terms of religion and so forth.
But there are great abuses in terms of the missionary activity I've seen in the field.
I mean, if people would know that, I think they sometimes wonder if their money was being widely spent.
And from an anthropological standpoint, I have some problem with trying to
say to somebody, your religion is wrong and mine's right.
What right do I have to say that, you know?
Now, you can provide them education, opportunities and so forth and let them make the decision, but it's, anyway.
All right, last question.
Looking back over all these years, to whom do you feel most grateful?
I guess Dr. Hutchison.
Well, no, it could be more than one.
Oh, more than one.
Dr. Hutchison, certainly.
Some of my early professors, like Dr. Harrington.
M.T.
Harrington?
Yeah.
He was one of the best teachers that I ever had.
People like Dr. Adrians, Dr. Bryson,
listen to me when I was a freshman type of thing.
And of course, many people within the organization, the years I've worked on, as I indicated, Mr. Pruitt,
The people that worked with me directly, Joe Rohde, Vernon Pellett, Delbert Black, Jenny Kitching, who was the home economics leader, a lot of people that, you know, that I leaned on throughout the years that helped make it.
But if I had to do it over again, I don't think I'd change too much.
I mean, you know, I was resentful in terms of what happened to me as director, but I had a wonderful experience in the department.
They immediately accepted me as a full-fledged member and to this day I'm still considered part of the family over there and enjoy my association with them and keep up with the, with the developments.
You know, they made a wonderful turn with, you remember Herman Brown?
He was the one that probably made the turn, but, you know, that department was about to go out of business teaching or training vocational agriculture teachers because that's almost being eliminated in their school.
You know, they hit upon this agricultural development area and they've got about six, seven hundred students in that area now, which is a, you know, a generalized agriculture aimed at
providing leadership, you know, they get employment opportunities in agribusiness groups, you know, commodity groups and companies and so forth because they have a general education and they get, you know, enough some of the other things.
So that department has really turned itself around.
I can't take any credit for it, but I've been there while it's happened.
I've enjoyed this.
Thank you.
Let's quit there.
Okay.